README.md, before:

# kotlinktorclientapp

A simple Ktor application that sends messages to a Discord server using a Webhook.
This project was created using the [Ktor Project Generator](https://start.ktor.io).

Here are some useful links to get you started:

- [Ktor Documentation](https://ktor.io/docs/home.html)
- [Ktor GitHub page](https://github.com/ktorio/ktor)
- The [Ktor Slack chat](https://app.slack.com/client/T09229ZC6/C0A974TJ9). You'll need to [request an invite](https://surveys.jetbrains.com/s3/kotlin-slack-sign-up) to join.

## Features

Here's a list of features included in this project:

| Name                                                                   | Description                                                                        |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| [Routing](https://start.ktor.io/p/routing)                             | Provides a structured routing DSL                                                  |
| [WebSockets](https://start.ktor.io/p/ktor-websockets)                  | Adds WebSocket protocol support for bidirectional client connections               |
| [Koin](https://start.ktor.io/p/koin)                                   | Provides dependency injection                                                      |
| [Call Logging](https://start.ktor.io/p/call-logging)                   | Logs client requests                                                               |
| [Status Pages](https://start.ktor.io/p/status-pages)                   | Provides exception handling for routes                                             |
| [kotlinx.serialization](https://start.ktor.io/p/kotlinx-serialization) | Handles JSON serialization using kotlinx.serialization library                     |
| [Content Negotiation](https://start.ktor.io/p/content-negotiation)     | Provides automatic content conversion according to Content-Type and Accept headers |
| [Sessions](https://start.ktor.io/p/ktor-sessions)                      | Adds support for persistent sessions through cookies or headers                    |
| [Authentication](https://start.ktor.io/p/auth)                         | Provides extension point for handling the Authorization header                     |
| [Authentication OAuth](https://start.ktor.io/p/auth-oauth)             | Handles OAuth Bearer authentication scheme                                         |
| [Compression](https://start.ktor.io/p/compression)                     | Compresses responses using encoding algorithms like GZIP                           |
| [CORS](https://start.ktor.io/p/cors)                                   | Enables Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS)                                       |
| [Default Headers](https://start.ktor.io/p/default-headers)             | Adds a default set of headers to HTTP responses                                    |

## New functionality
You can now send messages directly to a Discord server using an HTTP POST request.
Example using `curl`:
```bash
curl -X POST "http://localhost:8080/send" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"content":"Hello!"}'
```
This will send the content of the request (Hello!) to the configured Discord webhook.

**Project structure for this feature**
- `DiscordClient.kt`: Contains the sendDiscordMessage(message: String) function, which sends a POST request to the Discord Webhook URL.

- `MessageRequest.kt`: Defines the MessageRequest data class used for parsing incoming JSON payloads.

- Modified `Routing.kt`: Adds a new POST /send endpoint that accepts a message payload and sends it asynchronously to Discord.

- `Serialization.kt`: Configures JSON serialization using kotlinx.serialization, with pretty print, lenient parsing, and ignoring unknown keys.

## Building & Running

To build or run the project, use one of the following tasks:

| Task                          | Description                                                          |
| -------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `./gradlew test`              | Run the tests                                                        |
| `./gradlew build`             | Build everything                                                     |
| `buildFatJar`                 | Build an executable JAR of the server with all dependencies included |
| `buildImage`                  | Build the docker image to use with the fat JAR                       |
| `publishImageToLocalRegistry` | Publish the docker image locally                                     |
| `run`                         | Run the server                                                       |
| `runDocker`                   | Run using the local docker image                                     |

If the server starts successfully, you'll see the following output:

```
2024-12-04 14:32:45.584 [main] INFO  Application - Application started in 0.303 seconds.
2024-12-04 14:32:45.682 [main] INFO  Application - Responding at http://0.0.0.0:8080
```

Commit message:

ability to receive messages from Discord users directed to the bot

README.md, after:

# kotlinktorclientapp

A simple Ktor application that sends and receives messages to/from a Discord server using a bot.
This project was created using the [Ktor Project Generator](https://start.ktor.io).

Here are some useful links to get you started:

- [Ktor Documentation](https://ktor.io/docs/home.html)
- [Ktor GitHub page](https://github.com/ktorio/ktor)
- The [Ktor Slack chat](https://app.slack.com/client/T09229ZC6/C0A974TJ9). You'll need to [request an invite](https://surveys.jetbrains.com/s3/kotlin-slack-sign-up) to join.

## Features

Here's a list of features included in this project:

| Name                                                                   | Description                                                                        |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| [Routing](https://start.ktor.io/p/routing)                             | Provides a structured routing DSL                                                  |
| [WebSockets](https://start.ktor.io/p/ktor-websockets)                  | Adds WebSocket protocol support for bidirectional client connections               |
| [Koin](https://start.ktor.io/p/koin)                                   | Provides dependency injection                                                      |
| [Call Logging](https://start.ktor.io/p/call-logging)                   | Logs client requests                                                               |
| [Status Pages](https://start.ktor.io/p/status-pages)                   | Provides exception handling for routes                                             |
| [kotlinx.serialization](https://start.ktor.io/p/kotlinx-serialization) | Handles JSON serialization using kotlinx.serialization library                     |
| [Content Negotiation](https://start.ktor.io/p/content-negotiation)     | Provides automatic content conversion according to Content-Type and Accept headers |
| [Sessions](https://start.ktor.io/p/ktor-sessions)                      | Adds support for persistent sessions through cookies or headers                    |
| [Authentication](https://start.ktor.io/p/auth)                         | Provides extension point for handling the Authorization header                     |
| [Authentication OAuth](https://start.ktor.io/p/auth-oauth)             | Handles OAuth Bearer authentication scheme                                         |
| [Compression](https://start.ktor.io/p/compression)                     | Compresses responses using encoding algorithms like GZIP                           |
| [CORS](https://start.ktor.io/p/cors)                                   | Enables Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS)                                       |
| [Default Headers](https://start.ktor.io/p/default-headers)             | Adds a default set of headers to HTTP responses                                    |
| Discord Bot Integration            | Sends and receives messages from Discord using a bot                           |

## New functionality

**Sending messages to Discord**

You can now send messages directly to a Discord server using an HTTP POST request.
Example using `curl`:
```bash
curl -X POST "http://localhost:8080/send" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"content":"Hello!"}'
```
This will send the content of the request (Hello!) to the configured Discord webhook.

**Receiving messages from Discord**
The application can now receive messages from users on Discord directed to the bot. When a user sends a message, the bot replies with a thank-you message.
Example response in the server log:
```bash
Received message from user123: Hello Bot!
Reply sent to user123
```
The bot listens for messages in the configured Discord server and responds with a simple acknowledgment.

## Project structure for new features
- `DiscordClient.kt`: Contains the sendDiscordMessage(message: String) function, which sends a POST request to the Discord Webhook URL.

- `MessageRequest.kt`: Defines the MessageRequest data class used for parsing incoming JSON payloads.

- Modified `Routing.kt`: Adds a new POST /send endpoint that accepts a message payload and sends it asynchronously to Discord.

- `Serialization.kt`: Configures JSON serialization using kotlinx.serialization, with pretty print, lenient parsing, and ignoring unknown keys.

- `DiscordBot.kt`: Contains the logic for the bot, handling both sending and receiving messages from Discord.

- `Application.kt`: Initializes and runs the Discord bot.

- `build.gradle.kts`: Updated to include dependencies for the Kord library and bot configuration.

## Building & Running

To build or run the project, use one of the following tasks:

| Task                          | Description                                                          |
| -------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `./gradlew test`              | Run the tests                                                        |
| `./gradlew build`             | Build everything                                                     |
| `buildFatJar`                 | Build an executable JAR of the server with all dependencies included |
| `buildImage`                  | Build the docker image to use with the fat JAR                       |
| `publishImageToLocalRegistry` | Publish the docker image locally                                     |
| `run`                         | Run the server                                                       |
| `runDocker`                   | Run using the local docker image                                     |

If the server starts successfully, you'll see the following output:

```
2024-12-04 14:32:45.584 [main] INFO  Application - Application started in 0.303 seconds.
2024-12-04 14:32:45.682 [main] INFO  Application - Responding at http://0.0.0.0:8080
```
